Super credit goes to all the sm5 devs who actually added features worth using
Special super credit to ca25nada for hand holding me through dumb stuff

Transcendence is a simple adaptation of ca25nada's spawncamping-wallhack theme
that focuses on providing a minimalist and configureless interface geared purely
toward a gameplay-optimized setup

Transcendence features a built in standardized difficulty system (Msd) that estimates
difficulty for files in supported packs as well as providing other meta-information on 
simfiles. Ratings across similar file types will be the most accurate to players with polarized
strengths. 

For a list of supported packs check the Msd Data dir.


The following are not supported to varying degrees of breaky-ness:

- Any version of sm5 older than 5.0.10
- Any aspect ratio other than 4:3
- 2player
- Setting the main profile to p2
- Net play
- Courses, casseroles, lasagna etc

Known issues/bugs

- Some people are having issues with theme and/or player settings resetting to default after reloading
songs. **This issue maybe might have been fixed**. If you are still encountering this problem instead
of changing options from within the game change the default options inside the themes/scripts folder
(01 player_config and 01 theme_config). And also let me know. So I can know it's not fixed.
- Loaded graphs from the msd tab will stay in the game memory until it overflows and crashes.
This isn't a particularly big deal unless you scroll through every song with msd data while 
on the msd graphs tab. Which you shouldn't be doing anyway.
- The MSD system currently does not support 1.x5 rates. This is not difficult to implement but it's not a 
high priority.
- Jack meter registers mostly super long jacks and needs to be less rigorous and just all-around fine tuned
better



v1.3

- Evaluation screen can now display a rating for your specific achieved dp% score. Whole number ratings
from 90% to 97% are generated by the calculator itself. If your score falls between these two values data
is pulled for the nearest whole numbers and then the remainder of your percentage is linearly interpolated.
The error incurred during linear interpolation of two calculated values is many orders of magnitude lower
relative to all the other sources of error present and this concession allows for personalized ratings to the
hundredth decimal point. Which is cool, and a good thing. The Msd version the value was calculated under will 
also be displayed. Which is not as cool, but is also a good thing.

**IMPORTANT NOTE**
This feature will be *DISABLED* by default until I finish reviewing the most recent changes to the system. 
This is because screenshots present an unavoidable degree of posterity that may cause confusion with players
less familiar with the system.

You may manually enable this by opening appdata/roaming/stepmania 5/save/transcendence_settings/themeconfig.lua
and changing "UseMSDValuesForEval= false" to "UseMSDValuesForEval= true". If you do this it's your responsibility
to be reasonable with the results.

- Gameplay difficulty display will now reflect Msd values if available
- If a difficulty value has been overridden an indicator will display how much the override value deviates from
the calculated value. For now this will be expressed in absolute value. This will be disabled by default to
reduce clutter on the music select screen. It may be enabled in the same place as UseMSDValuesForEval.
- CB highlight disabled by default for the time being (not sure how useful it is + no reverse support)
- Moved a bunch of msd related functions to a global lua script
- Cleaned up some code resulting in theme errors (not all)
- "Now playing" display will update upon gameplay start to prevent tab-scrolling from getting ahead of the
messageman (producing incorrect "Now playing" tags)
- Disabled the pause functionality
- Fixed some minor bugs during graph generation
- Implemented the jack meter. The jack meter utilizes explicit jack detection (interval independent) to catalog jack
sequences and outputs a value based on a combination of speed and length of jack sets and their estimated
difficulty relative to the base rating of the file. It's still fairly rough and in some fringe cases hand/jumpjack
patterns won't be properly recognized (the lost dedicated). This is due to the fact that it's specifically designed
to pick up on longjacks and most hand/jumpjack based files lack frequent hidden longjacks. This system will also 
pick up on extreme anchor presence in certain jumpstream files such as thinking of you(nb5).
- The technical meter is a composite measurement of short/fast jacks, heavy anchor presence and cheatability of
patterns (read: rolls). A higher bar indicates either an extreme presence of a single element or moderate presence 
of all elements, or both. 
- Merged in ca25nada's updated progress bar that scales with rates. 
- Lane cover has been set back to disabled by default. The change in the last version wasn't meant to be a change to 
the default value.
- Updated spawncamping-wallhack documentation. 


v1.2

- Rewrote all the scripts for pulling msd data
- For now the currently available msd data packs will be packaged with the theme download 
- Merged in ca25nada's simfile tab updates (cuz it was effortless)
- Reinstated Captain General 21 mini options. Default mini mod upon theme installation is now 0 again. 
If you wish to set a default value it is most efficiently done from the Preferences.ini file under Game-Dance.
- Added 0.9-0.7 rates. They are accessible after scrolling left (the 0.05 increments) beyond 1.95x, or right
(the 0.1 increments) beyond 2.0x
- Rate (music speed) can now be changed from music select. Msd data display will update to match rate selected.
There's a minor bug with this documented in the bugs section.


v1.1

- switched to 4:3 aspect ratio layout default, it's just more sensible for gameplay/streaming layouts
- merged in ca25nada's bugfixes/updates to the error bar
- wrote in scripts for pulling msd data from .sm files, functionally working but still very rough
- updated defaults to better reflect optimized gameplay consult the prefoverride script for details
- this version will force reset game preferences (not theme preferences and hopefully never again)


v1.0

Color/Presentation---- 
Overall: Important stuff = biggger. Not important stuff = smaller/removed

- Main:positive is now used almost universally for theme element text (not "read-y" text)
- Main:frames darkened to nearly black
- Gutted nearly all the "glow and glitter" from the original theme
- Removed nearly all redundancies in data display produced by allowing for 2player modes
- Importance of data displayed is now reflected in the size/location of the display

Options/Preferences----
Overall: Defaults set to the settings that "competitive" players generally use

Preferences.ini stuff
***the PrefsOverride.lua file in the scripts folder will autoset these prefs upon theme initialization
- BGBrightness to 0
- Center1Player to 1
- DelayedBack to 0
- MaxHighScoresPerListForPlayer to 10
- ShowCaution to 0
- ShowDanger to 0
- ShowInstructions to 0
- SoundDrivers to "WaveOut"
if you want to manually set one/ all of these, delete the settings in the .lua or delete the script entirely

Gameplay/player options stuff
- DP set as the default scoring type
- Scoretracking enabled by default to 93% DP
- NPS graph/display enabled by default
- CB highlight enabled by default but modified to cover from the top of the screen to the receptors only
- Error bar enabled by default but relocated to just under the combo display for "ease of access"
- Combo moved slightly to the right to more evenly distribute numbers between both sides of the notefield
- Cmod increments changed to 50/1 default
- Default mini size set to 29% and removed the excessive number of options, set custom values in metrics if you want to (default remains no mini though)
- Reorganized rates, standard 1-2 at 0.1 increments are accessed by scrolling to the right, and 0.05 increments are left

Other stuff----
stuff

eval screen needs the most work atm